In the revelation presented to the Apostle John, Jesus pointed ahead many centuries to
the time when Jehovah brings an end to those who oppose His kingdom.
At Revelation 11 and verse 18, it speaks of such opposers as those ruining the earth.
In its entirety, the verse says this, Revelation 11 verse 18.
But the nations became wrathful, and your own wrath came, and the appointed time came
for the dead to be judged, and to reward your slaves, the prophets, and the holy ones,
and those fearing your name, the small and the great, and to bring to ruin those ruining
the earth.
This verse assures us that Jehovah is going to stop the ruining of the earth.
But is it only man's pollution of the earth, and the misuse of its resources that is being
spoken of here, or is there more to it?
To answer those questions, here are four main points that we will consider.
What is the earth as spoken of in God's Word?
To what ruining of it does Revelation 11 and 18 refer, when will Jehovah act to stop it?
And what is the earth that will endure forever?
So to start, what is meant by earth?
To answer that question, we'll look at the planet and the people.
Why do we include the people?
Because earth, like some other expressions in God's Word, has more than one basic meaning.
Consider the word heaven.
Heaven has the sense of that which is higher lofty, and it can refer to a number of things.
For example, at Genesis 27, verse 28, we read of Isaac's blessing for Jacob.
He told him in part,
May the true God give you the do's of the heavens.
The do's of the heavens.
Here, heavens has the meaning of literal sky, true.
But now compare Daniel chapter 4 and verse 26.
In this verse, we read that Daniel interprets Nebuchadnezzar's dream regarding the great tree,
and he says to him,
Your kingdom will be yours again after you come to know that the heavens are ruling.
Clearly, this is not the literal sky, is it?
But it has reference to Jehovah's sovereignty.
Likewise, in the Bible, the word earth can have more than one meaning.
First, let's look at the planet.
Unlike the planets that have been named after false gods,
Genesis chapter 1 tells us that Jehovah named this planet earth.
As for the false labeling of the other planets, we can be certain that those disgusting names will soon be gone.
But as for the earth, Jehovah leaves us in no doubt about its future.
It was created to last forever.
Ecclesiastes chapter 1 and verse 4 states,
that although generations of people at this time come and go,
the earth it says that is the planet remains forever.
Psalm 104 verse 5 adds that it will not be moved from its place forever and ever.
So then the planet earth will never be destroyed.
God's purpose for it will be fulfilled.
What is that purpose?
God's purpose is for the earth to be inhabited by faithful humans in perfection and happiness with everlasting life.
That brings us to the people, those for whom the earth was made.
You can hardly mention one without the other, right?
For instance, many scriptures refer to people when speaking of the earth.
Here are some examples.
Genesis 111.
Now all the earth continued to be of one language.
At Genesis 24 and verse 3, Abraham refers to Jehovah as being the God of the earth, obviously people.
Isaiah 49 13,
Shalt for joy, you heavens, and rejoice, you earth.
And Revelation 192 speaks of false religion as the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality.
Clearly, those verses refer to humans who can speak, who can worship, who can express joy,
and who can be corrupted by sexual immorality.
Up to this point, we've looked at the earth then as a planet.
We have reviewed God's purpose for it, and we have considered how the word earth relates to the people on it.
Now let's consider the question to what ruining does Revelation 1118 refer to the planet, the people, or both?
First, the planet.
Jehovah hates to see the earth being ruined today as it is, and we can be certain that he hates the pollution,
the damage to the earth's climate, the misuse of its resources, and the devastation of human wars.
Jehovah cares for what he has made.
After making the earth, he said that it was good.
We can read about it at Genesis 1 and 2.
Imagine Jehovah's happiness.
This special planet was to be a gift.
Psalm 115 and verse 16 states that the earth he has given to the sons of men.
So then, what about the people?
Does Jehovah's discuss that the ruining of the earth apply to the ruining of mankind as well?
Yes.
We can see this in what is stated at Genesis 6 and verses 11 and 12.
In this setting, the world of Noah's Day has become ruined in God's eyes.
And as we read the verses, look for the connection between the earth and mankind.
It says, Genesis 6 starting in verse 11,
But the earth had become ruined in the sight of the true God,
and the earth was filled with violence.
Yes, God looked upon the earth and it was ruined.
All flesh had ruined its way on the earth.
Do you see the connection?
Rather than speaking of just the planet, the scriptures here linked the ruining of all flesh
or people with the ruining of the earth.
Likewise, today, just as mankind is harming the actual planet,
the world under Satan's control is also ruining all flesh.
In both ways, the earth is being ruined.
How so?
Along with false religion, human society in general is gradually corrupting everything
that Jehovah has said in place for mankind.
We see it in their incessant, nationalistic wars.
We see it in their racial hatred and divisiveness.
We see it in their promoting of abortion.
We see it in their so-called gay marriage.
We see it in the gender blurring that the world is promoting.
You don't have to be a man or a woman, they say.
You can be whatever you feel like or choose to be.
Really?
What does Jehovah say about that?
At Deuteronomy 22 and verse 5, he told the nation of Israel that, quote,
a woman must not put on the clothing of a man.
Nor should a man wear the clothing of a woman.
For anyone doing so is detestable to Jehovah your God.
If that is how the creator feels about the switching of clothing,
how much more detestable he must view the world's attempts
to blur the lines of gender with false labeling.
Recently, the World Health Organization adjusted its view of gender.
It now states that, quote,
there are many genders existing on a spectrum from male to female.
It added that gender identity exists on a continuum
and that sex is not limited to male or female.
Again, really?
Talk about an attempt to tear apart what Jehovah has made.
So then, even government agencies on a global scale are getting involved.
And they are critical of anyone who does not adopt their warped view.
At Proverbs 19, verse 3, it explains,
it is a man's own foolishness that distorts his way
and his heart becomes enraged against Jehovah.
And going back to marriage,
Jehovah instituted the arrangement to be a permanent bond
between a man and a woman.
At Matthew 19 verses 4 and 5,
we read how Jesus emphasized this while he was on the earth.
Quoting from Genesis 2.24, he said this,
have you not read that the one who created them from the beginning
made them male and female and said,
for this reason a man will leave his father and his mother
and will stick to his wife and the two will be one flesh?
He made them male and female and the two will be one flesh.
Jehovah's purpose for humans is clear,
but Satan's world now says that marriage can be between two men or two women.
Again, really?
We can be certain that promoting this corrupt view is Satan's attempts,
part of Satan's attempt to ruin mankind,
to make them so abhorrent to Jehovah
that he would abandon humans and his purpose for mankind in the earth.
But that will never happen.
God's purpose for mankind and their home will be fulfilled.
Just like the disgusting names of the false gods
that humans have given to the literal planets,
the false labeling of humankind
and the immorality will not continue.
For his own namesake and for those who love him,
Jehovah will bring to ruin those ruining the earth.
Well, it's one thing to consider Jehovah's view
in such matters among ourselves,
but what are we doing to help other people?
What are we doing to build respect for Jehovah's view of the earth?
Jehovah's view of humankind and Jehovah's purpose for their future?
Well, with a clear conscience,
we can confidently say that we've not held back
in speaking the truth about such matters.
For example,
here are some of the articles on JW.org
that honest-hearted ones can read.
For instance, what does the Bible say about abortion?
Does the Bible comment on same-sex marriages?
And how can I explain the Bible's view of homosexuality?
We should be happy to have such tools to help other people.
So then what is more important to Jehovah,
the literal planet, or the people?
Both are highly valued,
and that is why both will endure forever.
But the people of the earth are far more important.
Jehovah gave his son as a ransom for mankind,
not for a planet.
John 3.16 says that God loved the world so much
that he gave his only begotten son,
so that everyone exercising faith in him
might not be destroyed, destroyed,
but have ever lasting life.
And of Jesus, God's master worker,
Proverbs 8 and verse 31 quotes him as saying,
I rejoiced over his habitable earth,
and I was especially fond of the sons of men.
Knowing this, what should we continue to do?
What we should kindly and respectfully help others
to see Jehovah's view while there is still time?
We must never become ashamed of the good news.
For it's not just good news about paradise,
it's also good news about Jehovah's time
to set things right on earth again.
Parents with young children should take courage
from this fact as they work hard to protect their children
from Satan's attempts to ruin their minds and hearts
with immoral thoughts and false reasoning.
Thankfully, the end is coming quickly.
Please notice what is said at Revelation chapter 14
and verses 6 and 7.
And as we read it, look for what an angel includes
in the good news that he declares.
It says in part, Revelation chapter 14 verses 6 and 7.
It says he had ever lasting good news to declare to those
who dwell on the earth to every nation and tribe
and tongue in people.
He was saying in a loud voice, fear God
and give him glory because the hour of judgment
by him has arrived.
So worship the one who made the heaven and the earth
and the sea and the springs of water.
So then what does the angel include in his message
in his good news that he is declaring?
Fear God, he said, and give him glory
because the hour of judgment by him has arrived.
For those who love what is right,
that truly is good news.
And we're happy to include this angelic message
in what we share with other people.
God's word assures us at Acts chapter 17 and verse 31
that Jehovah has said a day on which he purposes
to judge the inhabited earth and righteousness
by means of his son.
What a relief and peace that will bring
to those who want to please Jehovah.
Well in this talk we have examined
what is meant when the Bible speaks of the earth.
That is the planet and the people for whom it was made.
We have also considered the fact that the earth
is being ruined in more ways than just the corrupting
of its environment and the misuse of its resources.
It goes far beyond that, doesn't it?
Satan and his world are also attempting
to ruin Jehovah's human creation in every way possible,
but they will fail.
Since Jehovah gave his son to save faithful humans
and to restore his purpose,
our next question is when will it happen?
When will Jehovah bring to ruin those ruining the earth?
Well the answer to that question is soon.
Very soon, the ruining of mankind in their home
will not be allowed to go on.
Let no one be mistaken about it.
Jehovah is resolved.
He is patient.
He does not desire any to be destroyed,
but he is determined.
His day is coming.
Second Peter 313 assures us that there are new heavens
and a new earth that we are awaiting
according to his promise.
That promised new earth is a new human society
that will worship and serve the only true God forever.
Those who persist in ruining the earth
will not be a part of it.
At Matthew 19, verse 28,
Jesus speaks of this coming change
as a time of recreation.
The study note for that verse says
that recreation means regeneration or renewal.
It then adds that the recreation is
the time when the rule of Christ and his co-rulers
will bring to the earth a renewal of the perfect conditions
enjoyed by the first humans before they sinned.
That's wonderful to think about.
The recreation will set things straight
after a failed rebellion.
It will fulfill Jehovah's purpose for the earth.
So then, what is the earth that is being ruined today?
As we have discussed, it is the planet
and the people being corrupted by Satan's world.
But what is the earth that will endure forever?
First, the planet.
As we have read, the scriptures are clear
that it will last forever.
Next and most important, the people, the new earth,
those for whom Jesus died and who respond to the good news.
The recreation is coming.
Jesus will not waste a single day of the thousand years,
not one day of it.
He's determined to honor Jehovah
and accomplish his purpose for the earth.
The future is not complicated.
Jehovah's purpose is not hard to understand.
The coming time of recreation
will bring about a rejuvenated earth,
a rejuvenated planet filled with perfect people
who love and serve Jehovah together.
That is the earth that will endure forever.